Lesson: CVD Absorption & Coinalyze
Course: Jayson Casper University — Intro To Crypto Trading Program
Source: https://learn.jaysoncaspertrading.com/courses/start-here-intro-to-crypto-trading/lessons/cvd-absorption-coinalyze
Vimeo video ID: 767046310
Transcript source: Vimeo auto-generated captions (English)
Note: auto-generated — contains minor mishearings (e.g. "cornelise.net"/"quinlise.net"/"quantalize" all mean coinalyze.net; "Cvd" = CVD; "lungs"/"lunges" = "longs").

---

All right. Y'all in this session we are going to be going over something that is very powerful. Cvd divergences open interest and absorption. Okay. Now this is a trading strategy that you can use to hop into a trend after the high and the low has already been put in. Okay, we could use this trading strategy for example, instead of shorting from the very top we could use this trading strategy to take a short from a lower high. Okay, or another lower high, right? It's a way to know that the trend is going to continue. Now I'm going to be simplifying this down very much. So for a full in-depth discussion of order flow CBD open interest, you're gonna have to check out the advanced course. But this is going to give you everything that you need in order to trade using this information. You just might not know as many details. What you're going to do is you're going to go to cornelise.net. And you are going to make a free account and then once you do so turn on the chart that you are using. So in this case, I'm trading by bit Bitcoin USD. And then you're going to go over to indicators and turn on two indicators open interest and cvd. Okay open interest and cvd. now before I get into how to use open interest in CBD we need to understand a few things about the market Okay, the market is fueled and moved by market orders. You know, there's two types of orders. There's Market orders and limit orders. If you are placing a market order, you know that order is filled immediately. If you are placing a limit order that order is placed on the chart and it will not be filled until price moves to your order and there's enough liquidity in the market in order to fill that. Okay, so just to illustrate this in ways that we can kind of visualize. if I have a limit short order set right here, let's say That order just being placed in and of itself is not going to move price right if I place a limit order to Short from this area. Just because I place that limit order it is not going to move price. However, if I'm a whale and I place a market long order right here. That will then move the price because if there's more buyers and sellers the price goes up, but if there's more sellers than buyers the price goes down and we're talking about Market orders active orders limit orders are passive. They do not immediately get activated right? I place a limit order a limit long order for Bitcoin at $3,000 that is not going to change the price at all because Bitcoin is not a $3,000 and that order is not filled and my money is not actually entering into the market. Right the limit order your money does not enter into the market to change the price until that order gets filled. If I'm doing a limit order up here to let's say I want the short but if I'm placing a market order to Long here immediately that long money is going to come to the market and it's going to work to push the price upward and the market is moved by market orders. If all of a sudden a whole bunch of whales got together and said we're all going to Long Bitcoin right now, they could move the price upward right and vice versa a whole bunch of whales got together and said, let's all short right now billions of dollars. They could move the price downward. but If let's say I had a limit order for billions of dollars up here. That would not move the price at all until price came up to that area. And then that order would start to get filled. Okay? All this to say that the market itself is moved by the buyers and the sellers placing Market orders. And again, if there's more buyers than sellers the price goes up if there's more sellers than buyers the price goes down. And open interest in CBD is going to tell us are there more buyers or are there more sellers in the market? And we're going to be looking for a Divergence. We're going to be asking ourselves. What if I see more buyers than sellers, but the price is going down. What is that telling us? Because when we look at open interest in CBD, they're going to be times where what should be the case is not the case, right? This is we could look at it as an algebra problem right more buyers and sellers equals the price goes up more sellers than buyers equals the price goes down. In this case, there's more buyers and sellers. We would assume the price goes up, but the price goes down why there's another variable in there. X Okay. And we have to solve for x right. It's like an algebra equation. What is X? Okay, what is X x is absorption X is cvd divergences. Okay. Now let's talk a little bit about what is open interest and what is cvd. Open interest is telling us are more trades opening or more trades closing if in general we see the open interest is trending upwards. We can say more trades are opening than our closing and the movement I'm seeing in the market is not being fueled by trades getting stopped out or liquidated. It's being fueled by trades actually clicking the Buy in the cell button. and on the opposite of that Bitcoin part of the pun there. If we see open interest is coming down. Trending down we can assume that the movement in the market is being fueled by Trey's getting stopped out and liquidated. Okay. Now here's something very important that we have to understand whether or not you are clicking by. or you are getting stopped out. Of a short right? Because when you get stopped out of a short that technically to in the exchanges eyes is a long order right? Because if your stop loss gets hit and you're short, right? You basically have to buy back. that that Bitcoin right and and take a loss for it and on the contrary if you're long. Right and you get stopped out? Then you have to sell that back. That's a market short order Longs getting stopped out our Market short orders. Okay, that's that this is important to remember. So the open interest is really going to be telling us our traits opening or trades closing and getting stopped out. Now the CBD is going to be telling us. What direction are those trades in if open interest is getting higher for example? And we can also see that the cvd is getting higher. This is telling us that there are more Longs than shorts opening. Okay, because we see trades are opening which what are they long they're shorts like if we didn't have CBD on here, for example, we see open interest is increasing. Right. We see that price is getting lower here. We might think to ourselves. There's more shorts than Long's opening. But when we look at CBD, we can say actually there's more lungs than shorts opening on this move to the downside. Right, and also we can take a look here and see that. Just recently on this last move up. We can see that CBD came down telling us that this is not being fueled by new trades opening. This is actually a move fueled by shorts by trades closing and look at this we can see that there are more shorts than longs. Telling us that these are Longs getting stopped. I'm sorry. These are shorts getting stopped out of their trades, right? These are shorts getting stopped out of their trays. This is not new lungs opening up here Right. This is not new Long's opening up. These are shorts getting wrecked. Okay? so this is important because if we see for example again more buyers than sellers but price is going down that is showing us that there is absorption. And we can expect another move to the downside. Okay, I want to take a look at something that just recently happened here. Okay that made for a nice short trade that I actually did take. All right a short that I took. From right here. Okay. Now, let's take a look at what happened? from about 20,300 now 20,300 this was a daily level and it was also a Fibonacci golden pocket. So let's take a look at what happened in hindsight here. I just got an alert. What is happening? Okay. We're just kind of messing around v-wop. What happened here was we came up to the previous day value area low. Okay previous day value area low. and when we did so we came up there with bearish divergences on Market Cipher B. Okay. This is a lower time frame. Let's go to like the three minute time frame. We came up to the previous day Valley area low. And what did we see as we got up there? We saw bearish divergences. On Market Cipher B. Okay. Telling us that this was a significant high now personally, I did not take a short here. I didn't see enough confirmation. So what I did was I waited and I actually took a short from here. Now, why did I take a short from here? Let's take a look at coin lies.net and see what's happening. now in this little chunk of price action from the time that we hit our high. To the time that we put in our higher low. Sorry our lower high from the time we put in our first High to the time that we put in our lower high. Notice what happened here? Price is getting lower. Cvd is getting higher. And open interest is increasing. Okay. So what does this telling us? We know that more trades are opening than closing. We know that more Longs are opening then shorts. Yet the price is getting lower. Okay? now We're gonna add more layers of confidence onto here because it's very important to remember to recognize that we're only going to be looking for this at key levels. Okay Not only was it a retest of the daily level, but this was also the Fibonacci golden pocket, right? This is also the golden pocket. And we're gonna we're gonna get into more of like the steps of what you're gonna do to find setups like this, but I'm just kind of explaining the overall. process We put in our high. We put in a low. We put in a lower high. And we can see now that the cvd is getting higher and open interest is increasing. What is this data telling us down here. More trades are opening than closing. Their long trades prices getting lower we come back to our formula, right if there's more sellers. I'm sorry if there's more buyers than sellers. We know price should go up. Okay, so we know there's more buyers than sellers but price is getting lower. It's making a lower high. What is this telling us? This is telling us that there is a whale. up here absorbing those lungs because if there are more buyers than sellers. We would assume that the price would get higher but the price is getting lower. So the only explanation what is X x is that there are limit orders that are being placed here by larger players. And these limit orders are being filled as these people are longing. All right. Now again, this is typically showing you what retail Traders are doing. If we see absorption, this is giving us a hint that there are whales looking to push the price and the opposite direction that retail Traders think the price is going to go everybody thinks that we had this big breakout and now they're buying the dip, right everyone thinks we just had a massive breakout. Let me buy the dip to ride it to the next higher high. This data is telling us that this dip here. As people are longing and prices unable to make a higher high that there's a whale here filling up a limit order. Okay. So let's imagine what is happening here. We have a whale and he has a limit order set. Let's say for $100, okay. This is back when Bitcoin was point. Oh, oh sense, right? He has a limit order set here for $100. Now each one of these Longs. Okay. Let's say that these Longs are they're going along. They're marketing long and each one has let's say 10 bucks. Right? So one guy markets on 10 bucks. Now this limit order is filled by $10 and there's only $90 remaining before it's completely filled another guy Longs again another 10 bucks another long another 10 bucks. Now, we have 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100, okay. Now there's no more buyers here to buy. There's no more buyers to buy. And we're coming up into a key area of resistance. And the reason why we can tell that there's no more buyers to buy is because the price is starting to reject here. At a key level and we can see that the buyers tried real hard here. But price was unable to make a higher high. And so this well has been filling up his limit short order for $100. Once $100 worth of Longs come in and there's no more long to come in the whale can then just push the price down. Right, he's absorbing those orders. We have to think of limit orders as a sponge that absorb Market orders. because I can only fill up a limit order if there's somebody. There to trade the opposite of me right if I have a limit short here and I'm waiting for price to hit my limit before my short gets filled. How am I gonna feel this short unless there's somebody marketing long here in order to fill my short right If I go to a store. If I'm A store owner and I'm selling. chickens, right Unless there's somebody to buy my chicken. I can't sell my chicken. So the only person if I'm looking to sell Bitcoin if I'm looking to short Bitcoin, I can only do that if there's somebody who's looking to buy. Right. And so if I'm a whale I don't want to Market in a huge position. I want to set a limit order to avoid fees and slippage and I'm gonna rely on other Traders and basically use their money to fill my order and then push the price in the opposite direction. and so basically what a CBD Divergence is it looks like a hidden Divergence. on the looks like a hidden Divergence if we're using the RSI. In fact, I'm pretty sure we can go to a website called google.com. And look for cvd Divergence. Cheat sheet, okay. I should probably put this in the what is going on. What the heck is going on with this? Okay? Let's take a look at this CBD Divergence GC here. Now we want to make sure that we are not using. A RSI cheat sheet, but we want to use yeah check out Toro's crypto. Actually, they're they are good. Okay, so let's check it out. Okay. This is this is absorption right here. Go ahead and screenshot. This this is what we want to see. Okay. If price is making a lower high. And CBD is making a higher high. That is showing us Long's being absorbed. Because the CBD again remember this is telling us are there more Longs or shorts opening? We see more Longs coming in. Prices unable to make a higher high those lungs are getting absorbed. We're going to push the price down. All right, if we're in a downtrend when we make a higher low on price, but CBD is getting lower. This is showing us. There are more sellers than buyers yet. The price is getting higher again. What is the only explanation? Is that there is a whale filling a large limit order downstairs in the basement. Let's take a look at a long trade that we could have taken this morning. Now. This is when we were looking at on the VIP stream this morning. I personally didn't take it. But we were looking at this low and we were saying that if the CBD can come below. This level right here. Okay. That we would long. Okay now not we'll get into more about what exactly you want to look for. But keep in mind that this again was happening right at The Fibonacci golden pocket 786 area we could see price was making a higher low and CBD was making a lower low. Into a key level showing us absorption of the shorts. Okay. Now in this instance, we can't see on cornelised.net that there were actual shorts getting absorbed down here. Because open interest is coming down so much. On coinalize.net, we would only be able to see that actually if we were looking at a TR chart in EXO charts. Okay, so I probably would not have taken this trade. That's not true. I probably would have taken this trade honestly because of the conditions of the market, but that that honestly takes a little bit more experience to understand the context of this CBD Divergence, but in general we always want to make sure that CBD divergences are occurring with an increase of open interest. And the reason why we want to see an increase of open interest is because we have to understand that if open interest is going down. There are no trades to absorb. Right. Let's say I see a CBD Divergence where price is doing? Something like this where price is putting in a lower high? And the CBD is getting higher like this, right CBD is getting higher but the open interest is plummeting. We have to understand that this cvd getting higher is not new Longs opening up. It's not right. It's trades closing out. So if trades are closing out, there's nobody to absorb we can only absorb people who are actually clicking the long button. If people are closing out of their trades. And it's causing open interest to go down. And CBD is going up. What does that telling us? This is probably telling us that people are either taking profit. People are closing their trades or people are getting stopped out. Right? We want to see that open interest go up because the open interest is going down. There's no actual new traits to be absorbed, right? So that's something to keep in mind. Let's take a look at some other good examples of this that has happened in the past here. You will find this happening a lot. This happens quite a bit. See if we can find another example here. This is the 15 minute timer. I'm typically looking at very low timeframes when I Do that. Okay. So right here. We can see that price. Was getting higher. Open interest was getting lower. I'm sorry CBD was getting lower and the open interest with getting higher, okay? This is a clear example of absorption right here. Bullish CBD. We get another move to the upside. All right. Let's take a look at something else that happened right here. See if we let's see if we can find a few more examples of this. and then we will get into exactly how I like to use this. Okay. Here's here's a great example of absorption of longs. Prices making a lower high. CBD spiking up like crazy open interest also increasing. That is Longs being absorbed again. What is happening here? We know more Longs are opening than shorts. Because we see trades are opening we see their opening up long price has made a High made a low and then a lower high unable. to put in a higher high boom very very juicy. Okay. Now I would take a gander. Let's take a gander here and see was that into a golden pocket? No, it was not to a golden pocket. Okay. Let's see if we can find any more examples. See if we can find any more. Examples here. They're always all over the place. Unless you're trying to go back and look for them. Right? So here's a great example as well of bearish CBD we put in a lower high. Open interest. And CBD getting higher. It's a little bit difficult to see on the 15 minute, but we can clearly see the trend here. And I'm pretty sure that this one for certain was coming into the golden pocket retest. And boom we get to move down from there. Let's see if we can find one on the bottom. This was a this was actually yeah, this this is a very slight Divergence right here. Okay, we can see price is getting higher you can see that CBD is getting lower open interest is questionable right here. Okay. It's actually pretty questionable. Maybe it's staying kind of the same or getting lower. This is probably one that we might need a TR chart to see in more detail. Are there actually trades opening up there or not? But again, that was a very very bullish move from there. Let's see if we can find another good example. Right here is a great one. Price is making a higher high. Sorry a higher low. CBD making a lower low and open interest is coming up. Boom we get to move to the upside. Okay. Oh, man, here's here's here's a Divergence. But open interest is not agree with us. It actually does agree if we were on a small time frame that we would be able to see. That the price right here is making a higher low. The CBD is getting lower and then we actually do see just in these few candles here a big increase in open interest. And from there we get another move to the upside. So again, what is happening here? It looks like There are more buyers than sellers. We would expect the price to be getting lower. The price is actually getting higher. This is showing us. There are absorption of shorts, right? I'm sorry. It looks like there's more sellers than buyers. I'm sorry guys. I have dyslexia. Looks like there's more sellers than buyers but prices getting higher we have to solve for x. The only explanation is that there is a whale. absorbing these traits now let's get into how we are actually going to be looking for entries. Okay, when we are looking for this to play out. We are not going to be looking at a blank chart. We need to be looking at a chart that has key levels on it. Now the best way that we can do this is such and such. Okay. let's go back in time a little bit and let's take a look for example at What just happened here? Okay, when we when we took this short the steps for trading this strategy are at least the way I traded and you can develop your own strategy, but step number one is price comes to a key level. and pivots Okay. two We wait. for a retest into a key level three we look for absorb ption. Okay now step number one. What we want to see here is divergences. On Market Cipher b or whatever indicator you use, right? Then what we want to do is we want to wait for a retest into a key level and we want to see Trigger waves. on Market Cipher beat showing continuation We want to see money flow. continuation and last but not least we want to look for absorption. at the key level retest Okay. These are the three steps Guys. These are the three steps number one price comes to a level and pivots. We want to see Market cyber divergences. Step two we wait for a retest into a key level this typically is going to be a Fibonacci level. Or a high volume node or a daily level or a weak level and then number three we look for absorption into that key level. So let's go back and find an example of this. Okay, let's go back and find it an example. Of this just recently. Let's go to the one hour time frame here. Let's see. Let's go down to the 12 minute time frame. Because we just had one of these the other day. before the fomc news So this was October. Okay. So let's talk about this right here. Okay, we came up to a key level. Which happened to be the Fibonacci golden pocket retracement from high to the low? Okay. it was a this right here. was a golden pocket right around this area now again when we're looking for key levels for me. I'm pretty sure we actually had we might have had a naked point of control up here or something. Not really sure. I think actually we had a naked daily point of control right up here. If I'm not mistaken. I think we had a naked point of control right here. Either way. We came up to a key level and what did we see as we came up into that key level we saw bearish Divergence on Market Cipher B. This is a top signal right here. Right, the 12 minute time frame is giving us barest divergences with money flow coming down nine times out of 10. This is a great short. Now. Let's say you missed the short. Okay, or you're not comfortable taking the short at the exact High then what we can do is we can then Do our strategy so step number one price comes to a key level and pivots with divergences on Market Cypher B. So step number one. Check price came up to this key level right here was a naked point of control and pivots. We saw Bears divs on Market Cipher B. Step. Number two. We wait for a retest. Okay, in this case what we do and let's Circle this so that we can remember. Okay what we do we'll go down to our three minute time frame. We'll go back in time a little bit. Go back in time back in time back in time back and aha. Okay. Now what we're going to do is we are going to wait for price to form a low. And once we form a low we are going to then pull the Fib from the high. to the low and we are going to then Mark out. that area that comes between see if we can. the area that comes between the golden pocket And the 786 so what we're going to do is we're going to take a box. And put it in between the golden pocket and the 786. Okay. And what we're going to do is we're going to wait for price to come up there. So just to see what that would look like in real time. Okay, we put in our high. Okay, we put our high. Let's go to our 12-minute timeframes that we can see you know, what things were looking like here. Okay, it looks like we could be printing a bearish div. Maybe I'm not confident enough to enter this trade right from the level. Although I personally did take a trade right from that level based on some lower time frames. Let's say you're like, okay this momentum wave doesn't look like it's gonna curve. I think we have more upside. Let me wait it out. Okay, then what we're going to do is we're going to push play, right? And we are coming down. So now that we're coming down what we can do that first low we might pull our FIB there. Okay put in our first low. and All right. Now we just put in a lower low here. So we have to adjust the FIB right now. We have to adjust the FIB as we're watching this price action play out. And now we're going to wait until we hit the area between the golden pocket and the 76 now. We didn't do it here. Okay, we didn't do it here. We did not do it until boom right there. Okay. This now would be the place where we look for an entry. Now what we want to see we want to see continuation of bearishness on Market Cipher B, which we absolutely see right here right one minute time frame. If we go to the three minute time frame same deal. We see the bearish divs forming here. If we go to the six minute time frame we can see even more that this six minute wave is starting to clip over. On the 12 minute time frame we can see now this wave is really starting to clip over because remember the initial High we weren't too certain. About that Divergence, right? It looked a little uncertain but now we can kind of really see that Divergence is about to confirm. And so we are going by our strategy price came to our key level. We got our divs on Market Cipher B. We got the pivot. We're waiting for a retest into a key level. Typically this is going to be the golden pocket 786 we look for trigger waves on Market side for B check. We look for money flow continuation check. Then we look for absorption at the key level retest. Now in order to do that. We have to go back to quinlise.net and we're going to go back in time to that that era in Bitcoin history, which happened to be I think a little while ago. When did that happen? It was before. Yeah, okay. So it was it was right here. All right. It was right here. Right. It was right here. Let's zoom into that area. Are we gonna be able to see it on the 15 minute? Put in our high put in our low we came up to the golden pocket. Now. Look at this, okay. Price is making a lower high. CBD is getting higher. And it's hard to see on the 15 minute time frame, but we can see actually. From here to here the cbda the open interest is actually getting a little bit higher. It's very hard to see we actually have to go down to a lower term timeframe. Am I going to lose? this let's go back in time. Oh, man, I I It's gonna be really hard to find on the one minute guys, but I want to show you this because when we're looking at this we're going to be looking at multiple time frames and the lower the timeframe the higher the resolution we can see what's actually happening in real time. So let's go back in time to where I circled it. mmm Quantalize doesn't go back that far guys quantalize does not go back that far, but trust me on the one minute time frame. We saw the absorption. In fact, let me go to my YouTube channel here. and let me Pull up the this right here, okay. So originally I was short from up here. Right. I took that first short. We came up to this level. We saw bearish cvd divergences show. Now look at this. Okay. Well crap short. Sorry guys here because we got a chicken's drinking water trace it up from an important level, but then I added more to my position right here. So why because we came up to the Fibonacci golden pocket retracement and as we came up to this level we saw okay. Now look at the seat look at the open interest here. We can clearly see that the open interest is increasing. We see blue candles in there. And all these things together, it's not always gonna be picture. Perfect. Like this is definitely not picture. Perfect. But we're taking an average of all the things that we see and we know in general if most of the things that we were looking for on our chart are true. again in our strategy over here Where's our strategy? Hang on? I lost it now. well I'll tell you this might not be the most professional. course in the world guys, but this is definitely this is definitely aha. There it is. This is definitely the information that you need and it's cutting out a whole bunch of the crap. You could sit there and watch these courses like over all this information. You don't need to know. Price came to our level we got divs on marketside for B on the 12 minute. We waited for a retest trigger as a market side for being money flow continuation. We saw absorption at the key level now. Here's something else. We need to keep in mind here guys. All right, very important. When we are getting the money flow and the momentum waves getting lower. Like this as we see here. That is a very strong signal that we have put in a significant high or low, especially for using the 12 minute. So if you want to be very safe, especially if you're a beginner what I recommend for this strategy is wait for 12 minutes. divergences before looking for a retest with money flow and momentum getting lower. If you see Divergence money flow and momentum. Then you can look for a retest. So, let's see if we can see another example of this. Right here. Okay. We saw a a bearish div right up here. 12 minute Right you. Saw a bear still on the 12 minute right there. And then what happened? We came down. We put our first low we come up for the retest right here. Now just the fact that you already know we put in a bearish div on the 12 minute and you see the 12 minute money flow getting lower. This is now adding a lot of credence. to your idea that this is a good place to shorten a higher low. In fact, we even see very locally. We have a 12 minute div here as well. But if you see absorption happening here where cvd let's say is getting higher. And open interest is increasing and you see the lower high here. That is the area where you want to really look for a short take it very seriously if you've already seen the 12-minute divergences and it seems like you may have missed the move wait for that retest. Okay. Let's see if we can find some longs. Doing the same thing. Okay, we're gonna go back to quinlies.net. And we're going to take a look to see if we can find Longs now. Typically I'm I like to use to do this. I like to use the five minute and the one minute time frames. Because what we're looking to do is if we see a significant bottom put in. We're gonna wait it out. Right? Don't try to catch the knife unless you plan to catch that knife because a lot of people caught this knife because it was a CDW, wait it out. Wait for the retest once we get to the retest then look and wait and see what is happening. Okay, once we get to the retest look and wait and see what is happening what is happening on the retest? price is getting higher CBD is getting lower open interest is getting higher boom. That is a beautiful. Entry and look at that we come right down to the Fibonacci. Golden pocket 786 retracement, right. So basically If let's say you have a plan to Long here and you're not at the computer or let's say you had a plant along here, but you were uncertain you're like, you know what I'm gonna wait for the retest as soon as you see that we're getting that big move to the upside as soon as we put in a high. You see that we're starting to reverse pull your Fib from the low to the high. Put a box or circle around that golden pocket 786 area and then watch for absorption as we come into there because remember more sellers than buyers. We would expect price to make a lower low instead. We're making a higher low. The only explanation is that this is absorption. How do we enter? There's a few options when you see that we're bouncing from here with bullish absorption. You can enter the trade. for a more aggressive you put the stop loss under that last low, okay. This is aggressive. And this is actually more so for scalping. but if you assume that this low was let's say a low that we put in at the let's say that this was a swing trade level that you had if this was a scalp or a day trade level that you had Put that excuse me. Put that stop loss under the last Wick right? But if this is a swing trade setup that you had put that stop loss under the the absolute low. Right. Sorry, I'm not doing good job. Put that stop loss under the absolute low. Okay. Yeah. It's a lower risk to reward ratio. But it's that if this is a higher term timeframe level, you know, we have to give it a little bit more room for volatility here. I would probably put like a 0.5% stop loss on that if this was a swing trade level if this is just a scalp. Then put it under the last Wick that higher low and the same is true for shorting. Okay. Now what are we gonna do? Are we going to Market or limit? Well, the more experience you get you might be able to see the absorption happening before we get to the level in which case you can place a limit order here. Be careful with that. If you're less experienced, I would wait until you see that we're literally bouncing from it. And then Market in all right, it's up to you how experienced you are but just be aware that this is not confirmed until the higher low is officially put in and we're starting to bounce from it. This is why we need to not only use order flow. But we need to also use Market Cipher to determine have we put in a significant High have we put in a significant low on Market Cipher? Because remember step number one is price is already come to a key level and has already gotten a reversal or a pivot with divergences on Market Cipher if step one hasn't happened. Don't be trying the long and short cvd divergences. Right if price is not come to a key level of support or resistance. Don't be just trying to find random divergences. That's not gonna work. Well, you need to have a trading plan. Right if my trading plan was to long this level and price comes down and it hits my level and then it starts to bounce right and I miss the bounce. Let's say well then I can look to get into a long here because my trading plan is still valid. I was looking to long from this level and maybe my target was up here. Right. So if I'm seeing step number one happening, right we came down to my key level we saw my divergences then we're waiting for the retest step. Number two. We see the absorption. Because my trading plan is still valid I can still enter here and yeah, my entry is not as good but this is still a great entry if our Target is up here. Does it really matter if we have a It doesn't really matter. If we have a point two three percent stop loss or a 0.06% Stop loss. Obviously. This is a better entry but this is still a great entry. Right? No one would say that this was a bad entry if our Target was up here, right? We're risking point a quarter of a percent to make one and a quarter percent. That's a great risk reward ratio, five times more potential reward than risk. Okay, but if Trice is just trading in the middle of nowhere and you don't have a plan and you don't have a level don't try and just trade these divergences that is gonna absolutely get you wrecked. Okay, you have to you have to be divergences these CBD divergences. I use them to trade my plans if I miss out on my plan right if I miss out on my plan. My initial plan to catch the knife. This is a great plan b or if you don't like catching knives, this is a great plan A. All right. Now there are other things that we can do here. Let's let's talk about some other ways to implement this let's say for example, we do have a key level that this was a let's say that this was a daily level. Okay, just as an example. This is a daily level. right and let's say we wake up one morning and price came to the Daily it kind of bounced and lost the daily, right? Well, we could say to ourselves. Let's say this daily was not just a daily level but it was also a value area low of a range. Okay. This is a value area low of range in the daily. We could then say to ourselves a reclaim of the daily is a sign of strength. So if we come up and we reclaim the daily and we see bullish divergences happening as we reclaim the daily, then we could actually use this to enter into a long trade on a reclaim of a level. We're not longing the breakout of the daily, but we're longing the retest using this kind of thing. The only difference is if we are longing the reclaim of level or shorting the back test of a level, right? The reversal is true if we wake up in the morning and we see that price has was up here on the daily it feel right through the daily and we're looking to short here. We can look for Bears absorption as we back test the daily the difference with this guys is that if we're looking for a retest or a back test step number one does not apply because we will not be printing divergences. If we are trading the continuation of the trend and the real reversal happened way up here, right if the real reversal happened way up here. And we've already had a number of retraces before we're back testing that we're not going to see divs. Right we could see Trigger waves on Market Cipher B, but we're not going to see divergences. That's the only difference. Okay, so that is how you're going to look for CBD divergences. This is the way I use them in my trading strategy. I hope you found this session very helpful, and I'm going to be making more sessions as well and talking about this stuff we go over this stuff guys in the VIP Discord almost every single time me and boy and get on there and I get on there. So make sure to check that out. If you're in the VIP Discord make sure to even even if you're late to the live streams. They still have some good info as we watch the markets play out. Alright guys, that is it for this session. I hope you found it super helpful, and I'll see you on the next session. Peace.
